---
title: "Region-aware Grasp Framework with Normalized Grasp Space for 6-DoF Grasping in Cluttered Scene"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-02-03-Region-6
excerpt: 'As proved in former grasp detection works, regional geometric information is crucial for determining grasp poses. A series of region-based methods succeed in extracting regional features and enhancing grasp detection quality. ...'
date: 2024-06-06
venue: arXiv preprint
paperurl: https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.01767
paperurltext: '[pdf]'
# paperbibtex: 
citation: 'Siang Chen, Pengwei Xie, Tang Wei, Dingchang Hu, Guijin Wang. (2024). Region-aware Framework with Normalized Grasp Space for 6-DoF Grasping in Cluttered Scene.'
---
## Abstract

As proved in former grasp detection works, regional geometric information is crucial for determining grasp poses. A series of region-based methods succeed in extracting regional features and enhancing grasp detection quality. However, faced with a cluttered scene with multiple objects and potential collision, the definition of the grasp-relevant region remains inconsistent among methods, and the relationship between grasps and regional spaces remains incompletely investigated. In this paper, from a novel grasp-centric viewpoint, we propose Normalized Grasp Space (NGS), unifying the grasp representation within a normalized regional space. The relationship among the grasp widths, region scales, and gripper sizes is also considered and empowers our method to generalize to grippers with different scales. Leveraging the characteristics of the NGS, we find that 2D CNNs are surprisingly underestimated for complicated 6-DoF grasp detection tasks in clutter scenes and build a highly efficient Region-aware Normalized Grasp Network (RNGNet). Quantitative and qualitative experiments on the GraspNet-1Billion dataset show the superiority of our method to current state-of-the-art methods. In real-world experiments, we further explore the potential of our method not only via table-top object clearance experiments but also through multi-scale grasp inference and reactive grasp detection in dynamic scenarios.


## Video

<video id="video" width="90%" controls="" preload="none">
      <source id="mp4" src="https://cloud.tsinghua.edu.cn/f/037bd8131b644f60bb01/?dl=1" type="video/mp4">
</videos>